Article

Sequential Aging Tests of Cyclic Bending for the Reliability
Assessment of Laminated Oxide/Silver/Oxide Flexible
Transparent Conductors

Jung-Yen Chang, Yu-Han Kao, Hung-Shuo Chang and Chiao-Chi Lin *

                                                 Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Feng Chia University, Taichung 40724, Taiwan
                                                 * Correspondence: chiaochi@fcu.edu.tw; Tel.: +886-4-2451-7250 (ext. 5311)

                                       Abstract

                                       Flexible transparent conductors (FTCs) are key materials that determine the scalability
                                       and performance of flexible optoelectronic devices. This study explores the reliability
                                       of FTCs with laminated multilayer structures, specifically oxide/metal/oxide (OMO)
                                       films, through sequential testing composed of accelerated weathering and cyclic bending.
                                       Commercially available ZTO/Ag/ZTO-based FTCs were selected as a model system to
                                       study, and Weibull analysis was employed to assess their failure behaviors. Results illustrate
                                       that weathered aged samples exhibit significantly impaired bending lifespan compared to
                                       unaged samples due to substrate embrittlement. Hence, the surface cracking mechanism
                                       alters as the weathering time is prolonged. Not only the weathering time, but also the
                                       thickness of the conductive metal layer plays an important role in influencing the bending
                                       reliability behaviors of the OMO FTCs. A sequential aging test that combines two-step UV
                                       weathering and an interim manual bending demonstrates that surface cracks can induce the
                                       degradation of both optical and electrical properties. Intricately complex bending modes
                                       would accelerate the deterioration. This study highlights the critical and synergistic roles
                                       of weathering aging and cyclic bending on the reliability of OMO FTCs, offering insights
                                       for future design and durability assessments of flexible optoelectronic devices. Research
                                       results also provide fundamental information for establishing application-specific reliability
                                       testing protocols for FTCs.

                                       Keywords: flexible transparent conductors; laminated multilayer; reliability; Weibull
                                       analysis; cyclic bending; accelerated weathering; sequential aging test

Academic Editor: Je Moon Yun            1. Introduction

Received: 26 February 2026                    The light-weight and compact-size traits of flexible electronics have promoted emerg-
Revised: 31 March 2026                  ing technologies such as electrochromic, organic photovoltaic, light-emitting, wearable
Accepted: 3 April 2026                  sensors, sensory, and energy harvesting devices to a new era in terms of portability and
Published: 5 April 2026                 mobility. Flexible transparent conductors (FTCs) are essential materials in the applications
Copyright: © 2026 by the authors.       of flexible electronics [1­4]. However, stability and reliability issues of FTC materials remain
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.      a huge obstacle to the broadened deployment and applications of flexible optoelectronic
This article is an open access article  devices. Typical FTC materials are nanostructured metals and conductive polymers. These
distributed under the terms and         materials are intrinsically vulnerable to environmental stressors such as ultraviolet (UV)
conditions of the Creative Commons      irradiation, high heat, humidity, and bending. Laminated multilayer structures through
Attribution (CC BY) license.            depositing conductive and protective coatings of noble metals and oxide-based ceramics are
                                        commonly adopted to enhance the stability and durability of FTC materials [1­7]. Typical

Coatings 2026, 16, 439                  https://doi.org/10.3390/coatings16040439
Coatings 2026, 16, 439                                                                                                                                              2 of 16

                        material processes include ultrathin-metal-film by conventional physical vapor deposition,
                        metal nanowires by solution processes, and carbon-based nanomaterials by chemical va-
                        por deposition for conductive functionality, and conductive metal oxide ultrathin-film by
                        sputtering and evaporation for protective coatings [8].

                              To address reliability issues, bending tests of laminated FTCs have been widely studied
                        in the literature [1,7­10]. It is known that the deformation mode of mechanical loading
                        has a significant effect on the failure behaviors of FTCs [11,12]. Moreover, cyclic bending
                        test of FTCs can be combined with aging tests to investigate not only mechanical integrity
                        but also the mechano-chemo-coupled effects on chemical stability [13,14]. However, the
                        combined aging tests with cyclic bending usually involve high complexity and high cost
                        for the testing apparatus. On the other side, sequential aging tests that sequentially expose
                        testing samples to key stressors for emulating in-operation conditions in the fields are facile
                        and cost-friendly for reliability assessment [15­17].

                              Traditional weathering and aging tests adopt a one-step test of single or multiple
                        environmental stressors to assess the reliability of materials, components, and devices.
                        However, one-step tests result in discrepancies in failure behaviors when encountering
                        complex outdoor environmental stressors. Sequential testing can therefore effectively
                        identify degradation pathways that cannot be easily produced by traditional aging methods.
                        On the other hand, testing results of cyclic bending tests require a statistical perspective
                        for a comprehensive understanding of testing parameters and results [18]. The Weibull
                        distribution is a typical method that represents the weakest-type-link nature of the bending-
                        caused cracking behaviors of materials. However, there is only a limited study showing
                        statistical analysis of cyclic bending testing results for FTCs [19], let alone sequential testing
                        consisting of aging and bending. Novel test methodologies beyond test-to-failure protocols
                        have to be investigated for unambiguously revealing the reliability behaviors of FTC
                        materials and components.

                              In this study, a commercially available oxide/metal/oxide (OMO) free-standing FTC
                        was selected as a model sample due to its low cost for large-scale fabrication compared to
                        other FTCs. The laminated structure of OMO samples, with the protection of oxide layers
                        to prevent corrosion and degradation for the conductive metal layer (silver in this study)
                        during the weathering test, is very stable against environmental factors. Previous studies
                        have demonstrated that the optoelectrical properties of OMO coatings remain unchanged
                        after traditional one-step weathering tests [20]. However, the polymeric substrate expe-
                        rienced significant degradation after UVA irradiation [21,22]. The degraded polymeric
                        substrates can alter stress statuses in the multilayered system of OMO samples during
                        bending deformation. To the best of our knowledge, only a few papers have performed
                        sequential aging tests and statistical analysis for assessing the cyclic bending reliability
                        of OMO FTCs after weathering. Moreover, although multi-step UV exposure has been
                        suggested in some general testing standards, such as ASTM D7869, for protective coatings
                        in outdoor applications [23], the combination of mechanical bending and UV exposure at
                        elevated temperature for sequential testing has not been thoroughly studied for FTCs.

                              This study demonstrates the reliability evolution behaviors of Ag-based OMO FTCs
                        through cyclic bending tests before and after aging, illustrating a fundamental sequential
                        test consisting of a one-step UVA weathering followed by a cyclic bending test. Reliability
                        assessment is realized by the Weibull model through analyzing the results of in situ resis-
                        tance measurement under cyclic bending for OMO FTCs that have experienced various
                        accelerated weathering times and have different thicknesses of Ag layers. Furthermore, a
                        sequential aging protocol composed of two-step UVA weathering and an interim manual
                        bending step for provoking surface cracks has been conducted to illustrate the propensity
                        of progressive degradation due to bending-caused cracks. The effect of the bending de-

                                                                                                                   https://doi.org/10.3390/coatings16040439
Coatings 2026, 16, 439                                                                                                                                              3 of 16

                        formation modes on the reliability and cracking behaviors of OMO FTCs has also been
                        investigated. Materials characterization of failure analysis has been performed on the failed
                        samples to compare the degradation of material properties with the unaged samples.

                        2. Materials and Methods

                        2.1. OMO Samples and Weathering Tests

                              Commercial OMO samples with two different sheet resistance values, 2.5 /sq and
                        16.0 /sq, were obtained from ConvergEver Inc., Ltd. (New Taipei City, Taiwan). The
                        OMO samples were composed of nano-laminated zinc tin oxide (ZTO)/Ag/ZTO coatings
                        on polyethylene terephthalate (PET) substrates having a thickness of 125 µm.

                              Rectangular strips with a size of 10.0 cm × 1.0 cm were cut out from the OMO sheets
                        as received. All sample-cutting procedures adopted a rotary trimmer (KW-trio 13060,
                        Changhua County, Taiwan) to avoid edge defects on the test samples [20,24]. Pre-aging at
                        150 C for 30 min, which does not significantly affect the material properties, was carried
                        out to stabilize the initial geometric dimensions of the OMO samples before proceeding
                        with the subsequent testing steps.

                              During the aging test of accelerated weathering, the substrate side (i.e., PET side) of
                        the OMO samples was facing towards the UVA light source (UD-403S, JobHo Technology
                        Co. Ltd., Taichung, Taiwan). For a generalized purpose of outdoor uses, referring to ASTM
                        D7869 Standard Document for coatings, UVA irradiance ranging in 0.4~0.8 W/m2·nm (at
                        340 nm wavelength) and temperature ranging in 40~75 C have been taken into consid-
                        eration [23]. The parameter of the aging test was UVA irradiance 0.5 W/m2·nm at 75 C
                        for 6 to 18 days (d) for the studies of weathering time, metal layer thickness, and bending
                        mode effects. For the two-step weathering sequential aging test, the 18 d aged samples
                        (i.e., samples after 1st aging step) were manually bent and then subsequently exposed
                        to UV light for a 2nd aging step. The weathering conditions of the 2nd aging were UVA
                        irradiance 0.77 W/m2·nm at 40 C. The reduced temperature is intended to provoke the
                        photo-induced corrosion and degradation of silver, as illustrated in our previous work [25].
                        Material characterization was conducted with failed samples when necessary.

                        2.2. Cyclic and Manual Bending

                              Real-time resistance measurements during the cyclic bending tests were achieved by
                        employing a digital multimeter (LRS4-TG1, KeithLink Technology Co., Ltd., New Taipei
                        City, Taiwan) in conjunction with a servo-controlled universal testing machine (Chun Yen
                        Testing Machines Co., Ltd., CY-6102, Taichung, Taiwan). This integrated setup, along with
                        custom software (KeithLink Technology Co., Ltd., New Taipei City, Taiwan) for logging data,
                        facilitated continuous monitoring for resistance changes between the two terminal ends of
                        OMO samples throughout the cyclic bending process. Custom-made acrylic fixtures were
                        employed to realize three types of bending deformation modes, as shown in Figure 1 [26].
                        All the cyclic bending tests were performed through displacement control methods.

                        https://doi.org/10.3390/coatings16040439
Coatings 2026, 16, 439  4 of 16

                        Figure 1. Setups of the three bending deformation modes: (a) moving end with fixed fixture while
                        stationary end with free fixture (fixed-free mode); (b) both moving and stationary ends with fixed
                        fixtures (fixed-fixed mode); (c) both moving and stationary ends with free fixtures (free-free mode).
                        The yellow dashed lines and arrows in (a­c) indicate the closest position of the moving fixture to the
                        stationary fixture and the direction of reciprocating movement. The schematic diagrams (side-view)
                        below illustrate the three different bending deformation modes.

                              By one end of the fixture being reciprocating movement and another end being sta-
                        tionary, the OMO sample was subjected to bending, and the minimum radius of curvature
                        of the bent OMO samples was kept not smaller than 1.0 cm. The traveling speed of the
                        cyclically reciprocating movement of the moving fixture was 300 mm/min, which in turn
                        was 40 s per cycle because of pauses at both ends. To make a criterion of electrical fail-
                        ure, the OMO samples were deemed to fail as the real-time resistance value (R) reached
                        2.5 times the original resistance value (R0). To investigate the failure behaviors of the OMO
                        samples under different bending deformation modes, the sample was subjected to cyclic
                        bending in the following configurations: one end with a fixed fixture while the other end
                        with a free fixture (Figure 1a); both ends with fixed fixtures (Figure 1b); and both ends with
                        free fixtures (Figure 1c). The free-free mode was realized through a servo-motor-controlled
                        uniaxial translation platform.

                              For the reliability study of aging time effect, OMO samples aged for 0, 6, 9, and
                        15 d were tested by cyclic bending in fixed-free mode, with each testing population having
                        10 samples for Weibull analysis. For the studies of Ag layer thickness and bending mode
                        effects, 6 d aged specimens were tested in fixed-free mode. For the sequential aging
                        tests, the 18-day-aged OMO samples were manually bent using an auxiliary mold with a
                        diameter of 2.4 mm, prior to the 2nd aging step. The manual bending procedure was to
                        generate immediate surface cracks, and hence, the influence of the surface cracks on the
                        weatherability of OMO samples will be investigated.

                        2.3. Materials Characterization

                              For optical properties, we used a Hitachi UV­visible (UV­Vis) spectrophotometer
                        (U-5100, Hitachi, Tokyo, Japan) to measure the transmittance of the OMO samples in a

                                                                                                                   https://doi.org/10.3390/coatings16040439
Coatings 2026, 16, 439                                                                                                                                              5 of 16

                        wavelength range of 350 nm to 800 nm. We adopted a four-point probe along with the
                        LRS4-TG1 KeithLink multimeter to measure the sheet resistance (Rsq) of the OMO samples.
                        For mechanical properties, the universal testing machine was utilized to conduct tensile
                        testing with a gauge length of 8 cm for the OMO samples. The crosshead speed of the
                        universal testing machine was 5 mm/min during the tensile testing.

                              We used a scanning electron microscope (SEM, S-4800, Hitachi, Tokyo, Japan) to
                        observe the morphological and cross-sectional images of the OMO samples. Cross-sections
                        of the OMO structure on the PET substrate were obtained through cutting the samples using
                        a razor blade after soaking the OMO samples in liquid nitrogen for 10 min. Backscattered
                        electron (BSE) images were analyzed to investigate the aging effects of the 2nd aging
                        step after the two-step sequential aging test. The SEM operated at voltages ranging from
                        4 to 10 kV. Qualitative chemical composition analysis of the OMO surface was conducted
                        on the unaged and the two-step sequentially aged samples using X-ray photoelectron
                        spectroscopy (XPS, ULVAC-PHI, PHI 5000 VersaProbe, Kanagawa, Japan). The XPS utilized
                        the K line at 1486.6 eV emitted from an aluminum target, with a working voltage of 15 kV.

                        3. Results and Discussion

                        3.1. Baseline Information of the Unaged OMO Samples

                              As revealed by SEM cross-sectional images, the OMO coating has a nano-laminated
                        structure (Figure 2a,b). As the nano-laminated structure is thinner, the sheet resistance value
                        increases, resulting in higher optical transmittance (Figures 2c,d and 3). The nano-laminated
                        structure of the 16.0 /sq samples is thinner, resulting in a higher transmittance of 85% at
                        a wavelength of 550 nm in the UV-Vis spectrum. It is worth noting that the commercially
                        available OMO samples possess proprietary interlayers through interfacial engineering,
                        such as atomic layer deposition (ALD) and silane self-assembled monolayers [27,28]. In the
                        present study, the two clearly distinguishable transmittance spectra in Figure 3, along with
                        the corresponding sheet resistance values, support the proof for the thickness difference of
                        Ag layers. Based on the characterization results, the OMO samples exhibit excellent initial
                        optoelectrical properties, including the electrical conductivity and the optical transmittance,
                        along with a dense and robust nano-laminated oxide/Ag/oxide structure.

                              Figure 3 also depicts the evolution of plasmon resonance modes due to OMO Ag
                        nano-layer thicknesses. The Ag nano-layer is in the format of a mesh having nano-troughs
                        instead of a continuous film. When the thickness of the Ag mesh layer exceeds a critical
                        thickness, the sheet resistance value decreases, but the optical transmittance in the vis-
                        ible range reaches a plateau due to the photon resonance confinement effect generated
                        by the nanostructures of the silver mesh and metal oxide layers [29]. Additionally, due
                        to the confinement effect of cohesive forces in the nano-laminates, the residual compres-
                        sive stress increases as the nano-layer thickness decreases, thereby affecting the lattice
                        constant and the valence band energy levels [6]. The degradation of the PET substrate
                        alters the surface/interface plasmon resonance modes induced by the silver mesh nanos-
                        tructure [20]. The transmittance at different wavelengths exhibits distinct characteristic
                        charge distributions [29]. The conductive performance of the OMO multilayer relies on the
                        structural integrity, while the optical transmittance largely depends on the microstructure
                        and morphology.

                        https://doi.org/10.3390/coatings16040439
Coatings 2026, 16, 439  6 of 16

                        Figure 2. SEM cross-sectional images of ZTO/Ag/ZTO free-standing films: (a) 2.5 /sq sample,
                        (b) 16.0 /sq sample. Tilting view (30) SEM images showing the OMO structure and PET substrate
                        of (c) 2.5 /sq sample and (d) 16.0 /sq sample. Note that in (c,d), the short yellow dashed lines
                        indicate the top surface edge of the OMO structure, while the long yellow dashed lines indicate the
                        interfaces between the OMO and the PET.

                        Figure 3. UV-Vis spectra of the OMO samples (as received) having sheet resistance values of
                        16.0 /sq and 2.5 /sq.

                                                                                                                   https://doi.org/10.3390/coatings16040439
Coatings 2026, 16, 439                                                                                                                                              7 of 16

                        3.2. Weathering Effect on the Cyclic Bending Reliability of OMO Samples
                              Figure 4 shows the normalized resistance change (i.e., (R - R0)/R0) plotted against

                        the number of bending cycles. With increasing bending cycles, the resistance values of both
                        unaged and aged OMO samples exhibit exponential soaring. It is evident that the failure
                        rate of aged OMO samples is higher than that of unaged samples. This can be explained by
                        the embrittlement of PET substrates after aging, as shown later in this paper. Moreover, the
                        failure rate increases monotonically while prolonging the aging time.

                        Figure 4. Normalized resistance changes as a function of cyclic bending cycles under fixed-free mode
                        for 16.0 /sq samples before and after various aging times of accelerated weathering. The electrical
                        failure is defined as (R - R0)/R0 = 1.5 (threshold indicated by the dashed line), where R0 is the
                        original resistance value before bending, and R is the real-time resistance value during bending.

                              Figure 5 reveals the presence of quasi-periodic channel cracks on the OMO coatings of
                        the failed samples. Note that the crack direction is perpendicular to the length direction of
                        the rectangular strip samples. The inspection area is the location where the minimum radius
                        of curvature occurs during bending. The crack density increases with the extension of the
                        weathering time. The rise in resistance during cyclic bending is primarily caused by such
                        fatigue stress-induced cracking on the conductive OMO coating [1]. Note that the bending
                        cycles experienced for the samples in Figure 5 are different due to different weathering times
                        exposed, while the same real-time resistance has been achieved. Abundant literature has
                        performed focused ion beam (FIB) cross-sectional analysis, demonstrating the microscopic
                        insights of the existence of bridges and necking at the crack damage centers for discovering
                        the relationship between conductive pathways and mechanical damage evolution [30­34].
                        In the present study, the data from cyclic bending tests were statistically analyzed using
                        the Weibull distribution to acquire the characteristic lifespan of the OMO sample under
                        cyclic bending and to investigate the evolution in failure behaviors caused by various
                        aging times.

                                                                                                                   https://doi.org/10.3390/coatings16040439
Coatings 2026, 16, 439                                        8 of 16

                        Figure 5. SEM images showing surface morphologies of the crack regions of electrically failed OMO
                        samples (16.0 /sq) before (a), and after accelerated weathering for (b) 6 d, (c) 9 d, and (d) 15 d.

                              The Weibull distribution is a continuous distribution function used to analyze material
                        lifespan data, extract failure times, and conduct reliability analysis. It is particularly suitable
                        for cracking issues because such scenarios possess the nature that localized damage to
                        materials results in the overall failure of the component, device, or system. The probability
                        density function (PDF), f (t), in the Weibull distribution is defined as follows:

                        f (t) =     (  t  )-1e-(     t  )  ,  (1)
                                                     

                        where  is the shape parameter, and  is the scale parameter representing the failure time
                        (t) at which 63.2% of the tested samples have failed. The cumulative distribution function
                        (CDF), F(t), is derived by integrating Equation (1), so that

                        F(t)     =  1  -  e-(  t  )  .        (2)
                                               

                              By analyzing the parameters of the Weibull distribution, the impact of accelerated
                        weathering on the bending-damaged OMO samples can be studied.

                              The Weibull distribution diagram of the cyclic bending test results before and after
                        one-step environmental testing is displayed in Figure 6, and the summary of Weibull
                        parameters is presented in Table 1. Both  and  values show significant evolution with
                        increasing weathering time. For unaged (0 d) samples, the  = 2.2 indicates a right-skewed
                        distribution. After 6 d to 15 d weathering times, the  value increases from 3.8 to 10.0,
                        illustrating that the distribution becomes more left-skewed after a longer weathering time.
                        On the other hand, as the weathering time increases from 0 d to 15 d, the scale parameter,
                        which represents the characteristic lifespan of the OMO sample under cyclic bending, drops
                        sharply from 49,522 cycles to 1804 cycles. This suggests that longer UV exposure leads
                        to a reduction in the bending lifespan in terms of electrical failure. The UVA exposure at
                        elevated temperature leads to chain scission and oxidation of the PET substrate, and alters
                        its mechanical behaviors [20]. Therefore, the apparent monotonic evolution of the  and 
                        values reveals a gradual change in the failure mechanism.

                                                        https://doi.org/10.3390/coatings16040439
Coatings 2026, 16, 439                                                9 of 16

                        Figure 6. The Weibull plot displaying the results obtained from cyclic bending tests under fixed-free
                        mode. Experimental data points are represented by symbols, while solid lines depict the CDF curves.

                        Table 1. The shape and scale parameters from the Weibull analysis of 16.0 /sq samples before aging
                        and after various aging times.

                        Aging Time        Weibull Parameters
                           (Days)
                                    Shape Parameter,   Shape Parameter, 
                               0                              (Cycles)
                               6
                               9    2.2                       49,522
                              15
                                    3.8                       12,012

                                    4.9                       7460

                                    10.0                      1804

                              The tensile test results shown in Figure 7 demonstrate the progressive change of the
                        mechanical behaviors of OMO samples before and after weathering. The area under the
                        stress­strain curves, measured in Joules per unit volume, implicates the tendency towards
                        ductility or brittleness during mechanical deformation. Unaged samples exhibit high
                        ductility, characterized by a very high ultimate strength and a significantly large strain at
                        break. Upon UV exposure, the chemical bonds within PET, particularly the ester bonds,
                        are disrupted, leading to the breakage of molecular chains and a subsequent reduction in
                        molecular weight [21,22]. These structural changes directly affect the mechanical properties
                        of PET, significantly impairing its strength and toughness, and hence making the OMO
                        multilayer prone to cracking upon bending [35]. As aging time increases, the  gradually
                        shifts to a higher value, indicating more damage to the internal integrity of the materials,
                        and meanwhile,  decreases to 1804 cycles. The embrittlement increases the stress that
                        is experienced by the OMO nano-layers during cyclic bending, which in turn accelerates
                        defect formation and accumulation [13], leading to more pronounced channel cracks on
                        the OMO multilayers as observed in Figure 5. It is known that stiffness and toughness of
                        substrates are critical to the strain constraint/transfer effect on the deformation-induced
                        cracking of flexible conductors [33,34,36]. Therefore, the electromechanical performance
                        of OMO FCTs heavily relies on the weatherability of substrate materials. Additionally,
                        as the bending cycle number increases, delamination and peeling may occur at the inter-
                        faces, which further deteriorate the electrical properties and speed up the overall failure
                        process [37].

                                                       https://doi.org/10.3390/coatings16040439
Coatings 2026, 16, 439  10 of 16

                        Figure 7. Stress­strain curves of 16.0 /sq OMO samples before and after accelerated weathering
                        tests. The inset shows the details in a low scale of strain.
                        3.3. Effect of Ag Layer Thickness on the Bending Reliability Behavior

                              The performance under cyclical bending varies with different Ag layer thicknesses.
                        Here, the aging time has been fixed at 6 d, and the cyclic bending caused electrical fail-
                        ure was recorded for Weibull analysis. The Weibull distribution of the testing results is
                        presented in Figure 8. As the thickness of the Ag mesh increases, the bending lifespan
                        increases from 12,012 to 22,851, and the  value rises from 3.8 to 5.5, indicating a shift
                        toward a more left-skewed distribution along with a slower failure rate. This suggests that
                        although weathering-caused damage exists, the stress to propagate microcracks within
                        the materials has been delayed due to the increased Ag layer thickness. Thicker Ag layers
                        redistribute mechanical stress more evenly, reducing localized stress concentrations that
                        would accelerate crack initiation, formation, and growth, which is critical for improving
                        durability under repeated mechanical loading [28,38,39]. The enhanced resistance to crack-
                        ing allows the OMO multilayer to withstand a greater number of cyclic bending, effectively
                        delaying electrical failure and improving fatigue life.

                        Figure 8. The Weibull plot displaying the results obtained from cyclic bending tests with different Ag
                        layer thickness (i.e., different initial sheet resistance values) after accelerated weathering for 6 d.

                                                                                                                   https://doi.org/10.3390/coatings16040439
Coatings 2026, 16, 439                                                                                                                                             11 of 16

                        3.4. Sequential Aging Test by Two-Step UVA Weathering

                              Although the OMO FTC film retains good electrical properties after being weathered, it
                        is very likely that the sequentially subsequent bending caused surface cracks will influence
                        its opto-electrical properties and chemical stability. Therefore, a two-step sequential aging
                        test is necessary to investigate the degradation behaviors of cracked OMO FTCs.

                              The first step of aging majorly degraded the PET substrate, provoking PET substrate
                        embrittlement. The bending step would proliferate surface cracks because of the increased
                        brittleness of the PET substrate. Figure 9 shows the progressive degradation of optical
                        properties as sequential aging tests proceeded. Bending generated surface cracking and
                        UVA exposure at 40 C (i.e., the second aging) causes a significant drop in transmittance
                        and evolution of the surface plasmon resonance modes in the nanostructured OMO multi-
                        layers. The optical transmittance has been significantly impaired after the second aging
                        step. The transmittance at different wavelengths exhibits distinct characteristic charge
                        distributions [25,29]. Because the degraded PET substrate alters the surface/interface mor-
                        phologies, subsequent bending can hence modify the plasmon resonance modes induced by
                        the Ag mesh nanostructures. Furthermore, the second aging step results in photo-assisted
                        corrosion and interfacial aging degradation on Ag around the crack areas, affecting the
                        ZTO/Ag/ZTO nano-laminate's photoelectrical and optical properties. Figure 9b illustrates
                        the visible evolution of the OMO samples after different stages of tests, highlighting the
                        cracking, haze formation, localized defects, and surface nonuniformity of the two-step
                        aged sample.

                        Figure 9. (a) UV-vis spectra showing the evolution behaviors of optical transmittance (16.0 /sq
                        samples) throughout the two-step sequential aging test. (b) Photograph showing the samples after
                        the different stages of the sequential aging tests.

                              SEM BSE images show that the bending caused surface cracks, facilitating the direct
                        exposure of Ag, and hence corrosion products of silver could be observed in the vicinity of
                        the cracks as the crack areas become lighter after second aging (Figure 10). In the second
                        aging step, the occurrence of photo-assisted corrosion and interfacial aging degradation
                        near cracks can be attributed to the direct exposure of silver to the environmental factors.
                        Silver is particularly sensitive to photo-assisted oxidation when exposed to light in the
                        presence of moisture and oxygen. This leads to the formation of reactive species such as
                        hydroxyl radicals, which accelerate corrosion around the cracks [40­42].

                                                                                                                   https://doi.org/10.3390/coatings16040439
Coatings 2026, 16, 439  12 of 16

                        Figure 10. SEM BSE images showing the details around the bending caused surface cracks before (a)
                        and after (b) the second aging step. Corrosion products can be observed in the vicinity of the cracks
                        as lighter spots appeared (red circles in (b)) after the second aging step.

                              Furthermore, the OMO cracks provide pathways for these reactive species to infiltrate,
                        exacerbating the degradation process at the interfaces of the multilayer. After the second
                        aging, because the Ag layer is exposed directly due to cracking, the relative amount of Ag
                        becomes traceable (Figure 11a). Silver will undergo a photodegradation reaction, forming
                        AgCl after the second aging (Figure 11b). UVA irradiation activates the deterioration of
                        silver, enhancing its chemical reactivity with sulfur-containing compounds. This activation
                        process promotes the interaction between silver and sulfides, resulting in increased sulfur
                        deposition on the exposed silver surface (Figure 11c) [43]. Such chemical degradation
                        findings also explain the evolution of optical behaviors shown in the UV-vis spectra in
                        Figure 9.

                        Figure 11. XPS compositional analysis of 16.0 /sq samples before and after the two-step sequential
                        aging tests: (a) Ag 3d5/2 and 3d3/2, (b) Cl 2p3/2, and (c) S-O bond.
                        3.5. Study of the Bending Modes

                              Cyclic bending tests were conducted under three different modes, demonstrating the
                        diversity of electrical failure behaviors for OMO samples by various bending modes [12].
                        The detailed explanation of the three bending modes can be seen in Section 2.2 (Figure 1).
                        Figure 12 shows the relationship between the normalized resistance change, (R - R0)/R0,
                        and the number of bending cycles from the three bending modes studied. All three bending
                        modes exhibit an exponential increase in resistance at different rates of failure. In the
                        fixed-fixed mode, the samples present a monotonic rising trend with a clear sawtooth
                        trait of resistance jumping during each bending, and eventually reach electrical failure
                        after only 633 cycles. This is because the samples under fixed-fixed mode are subject to
                        multiple compressive stress files, which accelerate defect formation and accumulation for

                                                                                                                   https://doi.org/10.3390/coatings16040439
Coatings 2026, 16, 439                                                                                                                                             13 of 16

                        fatigue and cracking [19]. The resistance in this mode has illustrated the most pronounced
                        cycle-dependent change.

                        Figure 12. Normalized resistance changes as a function of cyclic bending cycles by three different
                        bending deformation modes. The tested samples are 16.0 /sq after 6 d of one-step accelerated
                        weathering aging.

                              In contrast, samples in the free-free mode fail after 69,720 cycles. With compressive
                        stress being relatively less influential, slower cracking behavior and therefore a more
                        gradual but discontinuous increase in resistance throughout the cyclic bending procedure
                        can be observed. On the other hand, it is known that the bending frequency has very
                        little influence on the cyclic bending failure behaviors of FTCs [19]. The primary factor
                        affecting electrical failure under cyclic bending is the formation and propagation of cracks
                        under compressive stress [13]. The free-free mode renders the least defect formation and
                        accumulation rate towards OMO samples, leading to a prolonged bending lifespan.

                        4. Conclusions

                              This study systematically investigates the reliability behaviors of Ag-based ox-
                        ide/metal/oxide (OMO) flexible transparent conductors (FTCs) through sequentially con-
                        ducting accelerated weathering and cyclic bending tests. The results demonstrate that the
                        deterioration of PET substrates significantly influences the mechano-electrical properties
                        of the OMO multilayered nanostructures. Weibull analysis reveals a notable reduction
                        in the bending lifespan of the OMO FTCs as the aging time increases. The evolution
                        of the shape parameter, from  = 2.2 to  = 10.0, indicates accumulating microstructure
                        damage of OMO samples upon weathering. Stiffness and toughness evolution due to
                        substrate degradation by weathering must be taken into consideration for the reliability
                        performance of FTCs. On the other hand, thicker Ag layers improve fatigue resistance by
                        redistributing mechanical stress when bent, resulting in prolonged bending lifespan. Fur-
                        thermore, bending deformation modes play a key role in the bending failure behaviors of
                        OMO samples.

                              The two-step sequential aging test illustrates that surface cracks promote the ingress
                        of reactive species, and hence provoke the degradation of OMO nano-Ag-layers. Therefore,
                        impaired FTCs will be detrimental to optical performance due to the bending-caused
                        cracks. This has been verified through the observed photo-assisted corrosion near the

                                                                                                                   https://doi.org/10.3390/coatings16040439
Coatings 2026, 16, 439  14 of 16

                                       cracks after the second aging of UVA exposure. This study provides insights into the
                                       complex interplay between weathering, mechanical deformation, and material degradation
                                       in OMO FTCs. Traditional one-step testing may be limited for assessing the reliability
                                       of FTCs. The multi-step sequential aging as well as bending deformation modes play
                                       critical roles in establishing the application-specific testing protocols for FTCs in outdoor
                                       applications. The findings in the present study are fundamental for the future development
                                       of standardized reliability testing, which is key to advancing durable FTCs for flexible
                                       optoelectronics applications.

                                            Author Contributions: Conceptualization, C.-C.L. and J.-Y.C.; methodology, J.-Y.C. and H.-S.C.;
                                            software, Y.-H.K. and H.-S.C.; validation, J.-Y.C. and Y.-H.K.; formal analysis, J.-Y.C. and Y.-H.K.;
                                            investigation, J.-Y.C., Y.-H.K. and H.-S.C.; resources, C.-C.L.; data curation, J.-Y.C. and Y.-H.K.;
                                            writing--original draft preparation, C.-C.L. and J.-Y.C.; writing--review and editing, C.-C.L.; visual-
                                            ization, C.-C.L. and J.-Y.C.; supervision, C.-C.L.; project administration, C.-C.L.; funding acquisition,
                                            C.-C.L. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.

                                            Funding: This research was funded by the National Science and Technology Council (NSTC), Taiwan,
                                            grant numbers MOST 109-2221-E-035-039 and NSTC 114-2221-E-035-055.

                                            Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.

                                            Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.

                                            Data Availability Statement: The original contributions presented in this study are included in the
                                            article. Further inquiries can be directed to the corresponding author.

                                            Acknowledgments: The authors thank the Precision Instrument Support Center at Feng Chia Univer-
                                            sity for the SEM imaging (grant number NSTC 113-2740-M-035-001). The authors also acknowledge
                                            the Msscorps Co., Ltd. for the prompt service of high-resolution SEM and the MSDL 2026 staff at
                                            Feng Chia University for the preparation of cross-section samples.

                                            Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

References

1. Cordill, M.J.; Kreiml, P.; Köstenbauer, H.; Mitterer, C. A comparison of 90 bending for foldable electronics. Coatings 2024, 14, 98.
       [CrossRef]

2. Yaseen, M.; Khattak, M.A.K.; Khan, A.; Bibi, S.; Bououdina, M.; Usman, M.; Khan, N.A.; Pirzado, A.A.A.; Abumousa, R.A.;
       Humayun, M. State-of-the-art electrochromic thin films devices, fabrication techniques and applications: A review. Nanocomposites
       2024, 10, 1­40. [CrossRef]

3. Kim, T.H.; Park, S.H.; Kim, D.H.; Nah, Y.C.; Kim, H.K. Roll-to-roll sputtered ITO/Ag/ITO multilayers for highly transparent and
       flexible electrochromic applications. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 2017, 160, 203­210. [CrossRef]

4. Maji, A.; Kuila, C.; Murmu, N.C.; Kuila, T. Interface-engineered hybrid networks to resolve the trade-off between sensitivity and
       detection range in flexible strain sensors. IEEE Sens. Lett. 2026, 10, 2500204. [CrossRef]

5. Wang, H.; Tang, C.; Shi, Q.; Wei, M.; Su, Y.; Lin, S.; Dai, M. Influence of Ag incorporation on the structural, optical and electrical
       properties of ITO/Ag/ITO multilayers for inorganic all-solid-state electrochromic devices. Ceram. Int. 2021, 47, 7666­7673.
       [CrossRef]

6. Sarma, B.; Sarma, B.K. Role of residual stress and texture of ZnO nanocrystals on electro-optical properties of ZnO/Ag/ZnO
       multilayer transparent conductors. J. Alloys Compd. 2018, 734, 210­219. [CrossRef]

7. Omiyale, B.O.; Ogbeyemi, A.; Ashraf, M.A.; Song, K.-Y.; Zhang, W.C. Towards robust flexible electronics: Fabrication approaches
       and ongoing research challenges. Sens. Actuators A Phys. 2025, 395, 117053. [CrossRef]

8. Won, D.; Bang, J.; Choi, S.H.; Pyun, K.R.; Jeong, S.; Lee, Y.; Ko, S.H. Transparent electronics for wearable electronics application.
       Chem. Rev. 2023, 123, 9982­10078. [CrossRef]

9. Ohsawa, M.; Hashimoto, N.; Takeda, N.; Tsuneyasu, S.; Satoh, T. Bending reliability of transparent electrode of printed invisible
       silver-grid/PEDOT: PSS on flexible epoxy film substrate for powder electroluminescent device. Microelectron. Reliab. 2020,
       109, 113673. [CrossRef]

10. Maeda, K.; Kashiwagi, Y.; Uno, M. Electrical and cyclic bending properties of screen-printed conductive patterns containing
       different ratios of silver microparticles and silver microflakes. Microelectron. Reliab. 2021, 123, 114243. [CrossRef]

                        https://doi.org/10.3390/coatings16040439
Coatings 2026, 16, 439  15 of 16

11. Glushko, O.; Cordill, M.J.; Klug, A.; List-Kratochvil, E.J. The effect of bending loading conditions on the reliability of inkjet
       printed and evaporated silver metallization on polymer substrates. Microelectron. Reliab. 2016, 56, 109­113. [CrossRef]

12. Mohammed, D.W.; Ameen, R.B.; Sierros, K.A.; Bowen, J.; Kukureka, S.N. Twisting fatigue in multilayer films of Ag-alloy with
       indium tin oxide on polyethylene terephthalate for flexible electronics devices. Thin Solid Films 2018, 645, 241­252. [CrossRef]

13. Seo, Y.; Ha, H.; Matteini, P.; Hwang, B. A review on the deformation behavior of silver nanowire networks under many bending
       cycles. Appl. Sci. 2021, 11, 4515. [CrossRef]

14. Mohammed, D.; Ameen, R.; Street, S.; Sierros, K.; Bowen, J.; Kukureka, S. The effects of corrosion, fatigue, and corrosion-fatigue
       of multilayer coated polyesters for flexible electronics applications. e-J. Surf. Sci. Nanotechnol. 2021, 19, 61­68. [CrossRef]

15. Chapel, A.; Fortineau, J.; Porcher, N.; Malandain, S.; Boucaud-Gauchet, S. Effect of thermo-mechanical ageing on materials and
       interface properties in flexible microelectronic devices. Microelectron. Reliab. 2021, 122, 114162. [CrossRef]

16. Aghaei, M.; Fairbrother, A.; Gok, A.; Ahmad, S.; Kazim, S.; Lobato, K.; Oreski, G.; Reinders, A.; Schmitz, J.; Theelen, M.; et al.
       Review of degradation and failure phenomena in photovoltaic modules. Renew. Sust. Energy Rev. 2022, 159, 112160. [CrossRef]

17. Lyu, Y.; Kim, J.H.; Fairbrother, A.; Gu, X. Degradation and cracking behavior of polyamide-based backsheet subjected to sequential
       fragmentation test. IEEE J. Photovolt. 2018, 8, 1748­1753. [CrossRef]

18. Saarinen, K.; Frisk, L. Reliability analysis of UHF RFID tags under a combination of environmental stresses. IEEE Trans. Device
       Mater. Reliab. 2013, 13, 119­125. [CrossRef]

19. Hamasha, M.M.; Alzoubi, K.; Obeidat, M.S.; HMasha, E.; Alkhazali, A. Effects of cyclic bending parameters on aluminum-doped
       zinc oxide thin films for flexible device applications. IEEE Trans. Compon. Packag. Manuf. Technol. 2023, 13, 1750­1756. [CrossRef]

20. Kao, Y.-H.; Chang, H.-S.; Wang, C.-C.; Lin, C.-C. Weathering and material characterization of ZTO/Ag/ZTO coatings on
       polyethylene terephthalate substrates for the application of flexible transparent conductors. Coatings 2022, 12, 1249. [CrossRef]

21. Horne, F.J.; Liggat, J.J.; MacDonald, W.A.; Sankey, S.W. Photo-oxidation of poly(ethylene terephthalate) films intended for
       photovoltaic backsheet. J. Appl. Polym. Sci. 2020, 137, 48623. [CrossRef]

22. Gok, A.; Gordon, D.A.; Burns, D.M.; Fowler, S.P.; French, R.H.; Bruckman, L.S. Reciprocity and spectral effects of the degradation
       of poly(ethylene terephthalate) under accelerated weathering exposures. J. Appl. Polym. Sci. 2019, 136, 47589. [CrossRef]

23. ASTM D7869-17; Standard Practice for Xenon Arc Exposure Test with Enhanced Light and Water Exposure for Transportation
       Coatings. ASTM: West Conshohocken, PA, USA, 2017.

24. Xia, J.; Liu, Y.; Hu, H.; Zhu, X.; Lv, H.; Phillips, N.H.; Choudhury, K.R.; Gambogi, W.J.; Rodriguez, M.; Simon, E.S.; et al. Impact of
       specimen preparation method on photovoltaic backsheet degradation during accelerated aging test. Energy Sci. Eng. 2022, 10,
       1961­1971. [CrossRef]

25. Chang, H.-S.; Feng, P.; Lyu, Y.; Lin, C.-C. Accelerated and outdoor weathering of silver nanowire transparent conductors under
       electrical stress in pseudo-modules. Nanotechnology 2022, 33, 15LT01. [CrossRef]

26. Kim, C.; Kim, C.H. Universal testing apparatus implementing various repetitive mechanical deformations to evaluate the
       reliability of flexible electronic devices. Micromachines 2018, 9, 492. [CrossRef]

27. Bylöff, J.; Devulapalli, V.; Casari, D.; Edwards, T.E.J.; Trost, C.O.W.; Cordill, M.J.; Husain, S.A.; Renault, P.O.; Faurie, D.; Putz,
       B. From mechanics to electronics: Influence of ALD interlayers on the multiaxial electro-mechanical behavior of metal­oxide
       bilayers. Adv. Funct. Mater. 2025, 35, e26343. [CrossRef]

28. Chen, H.J.; Luo, X.M.; Wang, D.; Schaaf, P.; Zhu, X.F.; Zhang, G.P. Fatigue damage behavior of Au films under very high cycle
       fatigue loading: Effects of film thickness and interlayer. J. Mater. Sci. Technol. 2026, 242, 115­127. [CrossRef]

29. Bauch, M.; Dimopoulos, T.; Trassl, S. Nanostructured, ultrathin silver-based transparent electrode with broadband near-infrared
       plasmonic resonance. Nanotechnology 2019, 30, 265201. [CrossRef]

30. Kreiml, P.; Rausch, M.; Terziyska, V.L.; Köstenbauer, H.; Winkler, J.; Mitterer, C.; Cordill, M.J. Correlation of mechanical damage
       and electrical behavior of Al/Mo bilayers subjected to bending. Thin Solid Films 2019, 687, 137480. [CrossRef]

31. Gebhart, D.D.; Krapf, A.; Gammer, C.; Merle, B.; Cordill, M.J. Linking through-thickness cracks in metallic thin films to in-situ
       electrical resistance peak broadening. Scr. Mater. 2022, 212, 114550. [CrossRef]

32. Gebhart, D.D.; Krapf, A.; Merle, B.; Gammer, C.; Cordill, M.J. Describing mechanical damage evolution through in situ electrical
       resistance measurements. J. Vac. Sci. Technol. A 2023, 41, 023408. [CrossRef]

33. Li, Q.; Antoniou, A.; Pierron, O.N. In situ scanning electron microscopy crack characterization and resistance evolution in
       cyclically-strained Ag nanoflake-based inks. ACS Appl. Nano Mater. 2024, 7, 27173­27184. [CrossRef]

34. Liemann, S.; Boda, U.; Mohammadi, M.; Zhou, T.; Petsagkourakis, I.; Kim, N.; Tybrandt, K. Exploring the elastomer influence
       on the electromechanical performance of stretchable conductors. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2024, 16, 38365­38376. [CrossRef]
       [PubMed]

35. Zakaria, Z.; Osman, H.; Rahim, N.A.A.; Munusamy, Y.; Ismail, H. Recycled polyethylene terephthalate blends and composites:
       Impact of PET waste, engineering design, and their applications. In Recycled Polymer Blends and Composites; Jawaid, M., Sapuan,
       S.M., Eds.; Springer Science and Business Media LLC: Cham, Switzerland, 2023; pp. 417­435.

                        https://doi.org/10.3390/coatings16040439
Coatings 2026, 16, 439  16 of 16

36. Ryan, E.A.; Raia, N.E.; Reynolds, J.R.; Shofner, M.L. Origins of electromechanical behavior in surface-localized nanocomposites:
       Insights into crack network dynamics and particle network rearrangements. ACS Appl. Polym. Mater. 2025, 7, 9211­9223.
       [CrossRef] [PubMed]

37. Ni, J.L.; Zhu, X.F.; Pei, Z.L.; Gong, J.; Sun, C.; Zhang, G.P. Comparative investigation of fracture behaviour of aluminium-doped
       ZnO films on a flexible substrate. J. Phys. D Appl. Phys. 2009, 42, 175404. [CrossRef]

38. Barraza-Contreras, J.M.; Piña-Monarrez, M.R.; Molina, A. Fatigue-life prediction of mechanical element by using the Weibull
       distribution. Appl. Sci. 2020, 10, 6384. [CrossRef]

39. Li, Q.; Antoniou, A.; Pierron, O. Understanding resistance increase in composite inks under monotonic and cyclic stretching. Flex.
       Print. Electron. 2022, 7, 045010. [CrossRef]

40. Tian, Y.; Jian, X.; Zhao, M.; Liu, J.; Dai, X.; Zhou, B.; Yang, X. Effect of thermal aging on the reliability of interconnected nano-silver
       solder joints. Crystals 2023, 13, 1630. [CrossRef]

41. Liang, D.; Allen, H.C.; Frankel, G.S.; Chen, Z.Y.; Kelly, R.G.; Wu, Y.; Wyslouzil, B.E. Effects of sodium chloride particles, ozone,
       UV, and relative humidity on atmospheric corrosion of silver. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2010, 157, C146. [CrossRef]

42. Yoon, Y.; Angel, J.D.; Hansen, D.C. Atmospheric corrosion of silver in outdoor environments and modified accelerated corrosion
       chambers. Corrosion 2016, 72, 1424­1432. [CrossRef]

43. Folgner, K.A.; Chu, C.T.; Sitzman, S.D.; Stuart, S.C.; Lingley, Z.R.; Barrie, J.D. Development and growth of corrosion features on
       protected silver mirrors during accelerated environmental exposure. Appl. Opt. 2020, 59, A187. [CrossRef]

Disclaimer/Publisher's Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.

                        https://doi.org/10.3390/coatings16040439
